# Spotify Analytics on my Usage
As every Spotify user receive a Year-end story and playlist from Spotify about his annual listening habit and insights, it may be more interesting to have a dashboard for yourself to check out anytime of the year with a broader dimension. It is also important to store your precious data generated by yourself on your end. Therefore, our goal of this project is to build a mini data lake and interactive dashboard to do analytics for your listening habit on Spotify.
<br><br>
The application is <b>currently in development</b>, <b>v0.0.1</b>, the expected beta release is 6 August 2023 (Not guarantee, subjected to postpone). 

## Goals and Requirements
The goals are to develop the ETL pipeline to systematically store the listening records obtained from Spotify in a centralized data lake and use this backend to power the dashboards or machine learning infrastructure.
<br><br>
You may find more detailed requirements in the [Goals and Requirements](/Goals) folder.

## Data
The listening records are obtained from Spotify directly. You may request the data through: Spotify User Profile -> Privacy Settings -> Download Your Data. You may request your Account Data, including last 12 months of listening records, in about 5 days. You may also request your Spotify lifetime records, although it may take up to 30 days.
<br><br>
Due to privacy, my full listening record will not be posted in this repository but saved in my local machine. However, the pipeline is designed to ingest dynamically which is not user-specify. Therefore, you may still able to utilize the pipeline for your own use.
<br><br>
You may find more details about the data from Spotify, data lake structure, or anything about data in the [Data](/Data) folder.
<br><br>
Currently, we are only support the attributes offered by Spotify. The data provided from Spotify does not have sufficient attribute data on songs' metadata. It may be followed up in the future.

## Tools
We will be using the following tools:

<ul>
	<li>Docker</li>
	<li>Postgres</li>
	<li>Airflow</li>
	<li>Python 
		<ul>
			<li>Pandas</li>
		</ul>
	</li>
	<li>Plotly/Dash</li>
	<li>GoodData</li>
</ul>

## Databases and Flatfile Storage
The applications are expected run in Docker Containers and utilize open-source resouce only. The database choice is Postgres and local folders for flatfile storage.
<br><br>
You may find more details about the data from Spotify, data lake structure, or anything about data in the [Data](/Data) folder.

## Dashboard
Coming soon...

## Setup
To initiate the backend and dashboard, you would initiate the Docker network defined in the Setup folder and it would automatically set up for you. You may find more details on how to setup the solution with Docker in the [Setup](/Setup) folder.


## Future Development
<ul>
	<li>v0.1.0 (beta) - Functional Backend and functional GoodData Dashboards for Basics and KPIs report</li>
	<li>v0.2.0 (beta) - Plotly Dash on Trend Analysis and Anomaly Detection</li>
	<li>v1.0.0 - Official Launch</li>
	<li>v1.1.0 - Playlist Analysis via Plotly Dash</li>
</ul>

Note:
<ul>
	<li>Playtlist Analysis discover low play rate songs and make recommendation to remove from playlist</li>
</ul>